Our group, which includes Gautam, Raj, Sanjeev, and Kartheek, is working on the topic "How do Credit Card Transactions Work?"
Throughout our work, we are looking at: 1)the journey from swipe to settlement.
2) Exploring key security features(EVM, CVV, Tokenization).
3) Looking at the common fraud techniques and how to overcome them.
4) We look forward to giving a visual representation of the process + the risks during the process and how to protect yourself from those risks.
We start with the lifecycle of a credit card transaction that includes Authorization, Authentication, Clearing, Settlement, and Reconciliation.
We then move to the security measures taken in credit card transactions, and in this
We looked at why transaction security is important, the common threats in daily leaves and
The security objectives we need to take while making a transactions.
We also looked at the roles of EVM chips, Tokenization, and CVV codes: Card Verification Value.
The way they work, where they are used, and their benefits. 
We went through some of the common fraud techniques as well, which include:
Credit card skimming, Identity theft, and Phishing. 
We then end by giving a visual representation of the full process, which includes:
The risks involved, and the solutions to those risks.

A Credit card transaction
Research the lifecycle of a credit card transaction from swipe to settlement
Starting from Swipe or Tap  
The cardholder taps, inserts the card, or swipes their credit card at the merchant's Point of Sale (POS) terminal to pay. After the cardholder sends instructions to the machine for authorization. Inserting cards and swiping cards are different methods. Swiping is done in the shopping mall or where customers buy useful products. Another method is to insert cards inside the machine, it’s means the ATM takes instructions from the customer or cardholders


Authorization Request
The POS  (Point of Sale) system sends a request through the payment gateway to the merchant bank that processes payments. Sending proper details after inserting the cards inside the machine. In this method, if the password or card is wrong, the system sends a notification to the cardholder regarding the correct information. 

Routing Over Card Network
The purchaser initiates the transaction with the card network.  Who forwards it to the cardholder's issuing bank, like Visa, MasterCard, and SBI cards, will coordinate with the cardholder. 

Issuer's Verification
The bank verifies for fraud, whether the card exists, and whether the customer has available credit by entering passwords or PINs. 

Authorization Response
When approved, the issuer responds with an authorization code to the acquirer via the card network, and subsequently to the POS (Point of Sale), the sale is settled at the time.

Temporary Transaction Hold
The total is retained in the cardholder's account (not yet cashed out), waiting for final settlement.

Grouping by Seller
At the end of business, all authorized transactions get accumulated by the merchant and deposited in the bank for settlement.

Clearing and Settlement
The financial institution that receives the money requests the cardholder's bank to send the funds through the card network. 
Transfer Money The money is paid by the issuing bank to the acquiring bank (less interchange fees), and the merchant's account is credited with the amount. That amount was cut from particular account holders.




Security measures in credit card transactions.
Authorization of transaction:
It is all about the allowance of the bank for the card use to the merchant.
How an Authorized Transaction Works?
While initiating the transaction,data is transmitted to the bank through the processing network routes and then Authorization is done by issuing a bank.And then the bank sends approval and notification to the merchant as confirmation of the settlements of the bank.

Differences between Authorization & Authentication
Authorization is done to check whether the cardholder has enough funds to complete the transaction or not.It is done through issuing bank and verifying bank balance and when it happens then the details of the card is submitted and authentication is completed to protect the merchant.
Authentication is just to verify the person of the actual cardholder which prevents from fraudulent transactions.The following ways are for authentications are through EMV chips,magnetic strips,CVV codes,PIN or signature and biometrics.

Introduction to CVV.
Generally, in daily lives we make many transactions for shopping or some other purposes through card verification value(CVV).It is also known as CSC(card Security Code) which is a kind of three-digit code on the back.Merchants use this to ensure that card is physically available there while making transactions and it is being used by the rightful owner of the card holder.It also played role in enhance and improvement in card verification to avoid frauds and scams.
What is Card Verification Value(CVV)?Where is CVV located on a credit card or Debit Card?
CVV(card verification value) is a kind of security code holder that exposes while making transactions during card is not present like online purchases and so on.It is very helpful in just for endurance to confirm the actual card owner just to protect from frauds.CNP(card-not-present) transaction is done when remote purchases is done or in case of e-commerce.One most important feature of this CVV is that its data is not stored for security reasons.Even if it is leaked by some case then lack of CVV cannot fulfill the purchases and it is prevented from the frauds.And this make its defensive feature for its usage.
CVV is a three-digit number that is present on the back of the card basically on the signature panel either on Visa or Mastercard.And on American Express(Amex),it is located on the front side of the card which is four-digit number.All kinds of cards having CVV have the same function in making transaction without any kind of frauds.

How do Card Verification Values work?
It functions through the following ways:-
Initiating a purchase:while making transactions,a customer is supposed to enter the card details like number,expiration date & CVV.
Data Submission:After entering the card details,then it is sent to the merchant’s payment gateway and later on it is sent to the payment processor.
Validation Request:Then to make insurance the payment processor sends a request to the issuer.
Cardholder Data Verification:Then the issuer checks to verify the information with the CVV details.
Verification Response:The issuer gives approval for proceedings if CVV and other card details are correct.
Transaction Completion:And if whole details are approved,then payment processes are finalised for the transactions.
How do Card Verification Values help stop fraud?How effective are card verification values at deterring fraud?
It helps to reduce the risks of the CNP transactions.It adds the security level for merchants as well as for buyer also.It is not restored,so it cannot be also used by others and it avoids from breaches.Manual entry of card details is necessary which ensures the availability of the card issuer or the owner.It reduces the unauthorised usage.It is very strong deterrent for CNP frauds even if it is stolen.CVVs are present on the card,so anyone can use it without any Authorization.And secondly if card holder is not the right owner of the card because CVV does not ensures this.So,rely only on CVV is not enough for security measures.And that is why it is very needed to have some additional security for strengthening its protection.So,AVS(address verification service) has to be matched with the billing address during the entry of checkouts with the address on file along with card issuer.This helps to confirm the cardholder’s identity.And ultimately,multiple verification tools like AVS and two factor authentication with CVV make its much stronger protection.

Innovations in card verification value technology?
It has many innovations like,
CVV1 Technology:
It was the first generation innovation which was encoded in the magnetic strip on the backside of the payment cards.It was used in-person for making transactions.It was ineffective for online purchases.It was also unsafe to use as its data can be theft.
CVV2 Technology:
It is the current card in the market which is located on back side of the card and it is designed especially for the CNP(card not present) transactions.It is updated one of CVV1 and that is why it is more secure in use.But one limitation is that manual recording of this card takes more time and it is easier to detect.
CVV3 Technology:
It is emerging and is a kind of future standard card.It is known as dynamic CVV(dCVV).It will replace static codes that can change periodically.It can work like two-factor authentication(2FA) for security reasons which can generate temporary verification code.It can prevent much better from frauds.

How do Card holders protect their CVV?
The cardholders can protect their CVV through many protection tips like they should not share CVV with anyone,they should review the transactions and they can report the compromises and so on.They can have safe online shopping practices like checking reputation of merchants and avoiding the sites which is not trustable.One should also be aware of the scams like phishing, one should avoid unsolicited requests and check texts or mails properly.

How can merchants leverage CVVs to stop fraud?
Merchants can do basic implementations like CVV checkouts so that there should be no CVV storage.They can have anti-fraud tools through multiple ways like fraud scoring,proxy piercing,geolocation,3-D secure 2.0 technology and AVS.One can build trust and security also through proper use of ongoing security measures.
Introduction about tokenization.
This world has been developed more that it has started digital transactions and there are many experts in this field also.People use credit cards for making transactions.And hackers use these numbers of transaction cards for scams.Many people get into the trap because of this fraud and breaches.Phishing and cyberattacks are common frauds in these days and credit cards are used for selling on the dark web.So, tokenization came into the play to reduce these kinds of frauds.This is to prevent from the misuse of cards by exposing the actual card details to the user.

What is credit card tokenization?
Credit card tokenization is  a system through which the user can only see the token instead of card number.It replaces the main and actual card number with the token number which is every time unique.The merchants while using this card can only access the token not the real and actual card number.Tokens that were provided are always worthless for the second users and if anyone try to breach it then it cannot be reversed again.It is the safest system for the user or the merchants.This system is used through online transitions, found in apps also and it is also possible for the contactless transactions.

How does it work?
This works through the following steps:
1.)As the merchants add the card to their digital wallet.
2.)Then the wallet requests a token from the person who is making the payment or the transactions and the payment networks.
3.)And then token that has been created, card image or the cryptographich are sent to the users’ wallet back.
4.)So, the token is just like the mirror or the shadow for the credit card number so the at users can use during making the transactions without getting in trap of fraud or other scams.
5)The issuer verifies the token and give authorization to it for the safe use of making transactions.

What are the benefits of using tokenization?
Through this kind of transaction making system, the exposure of data from the cards has been reduced that led to the enhancement of security.It is also very much helpful in regulatory compliances like PCI DSS, GDPR, etc.Through the safe transaction without exposing the actual card number, it enhances the trust of the customers.One more feature of this tokenization is that it cannot be reused out of its origin environment which reduced the liability and frauds.Of Course it has the capability to conduct the faster transactions efficiently.It gives the flexibility to one click, and for also repeating and to make transactions for the contactless payments.

Usage of tokens in different places…
It can be used for e-commerce transactions.It is totally personalized and can have safe and secure checkouts even if the device is stolen in some cases.It is used for making transactions in case of purchasing the products through online apps.While make a purchase on any kinds of online applications then each mode of transaction have the tokenization like google pay or apple pay.Each has the tokenization system.It has also the feature of one time payment by keeping the data safe.This is something like click to Pay which does not save data. In case of Cryptocurrrency transaction, tokenization is used safely.

Tokenization is a very vital and important part for making transactions safely and efficiently in modern digital payments.

About EMV-chip
What is EMV?
Another mode of making transactions is through the EMV(Europay,Mastercard & Visa).It is considered as the global standard mode of making safe & secure transactions through using chips instead of magnetic stripes.It allows to make transactions in both cases face-to-face and remote places.This is managed by EMVCo who is a global technical body.It takes the responsibility of managing it properly and ensures to have interoperability in it and give updates of multi specifications.This technology is developed in 1990s Europe to reduce the high costs of card Authorization.The updates with special specifications are like contacts, contactless,mobile and QR-code based payments.

How does it Work?
1.)First Customer inserts the EMV card at the point of sale(POS)terminal.
2.)Then the microchip of the card and POS terminal after coming into contact,creates a transaction code.
3.)It is authorised by PIN,signature or contactless verifications.
4.)Each transaction has one-time-code which cannot be reused.
5.)The POS terminal also checks if the card is genuine or not.
6.)Mercahnt’s bank  sends details of transactions to the card issuer.
7.)When the transaction is approved then it creates a transaction receipt.
Limitations of EMV.
There many limitations on usage of EMV.It is only much effective in card-present means in making transaction only on availability of person.It is less effective for making online transactions.Its security is also rely on merchant systems.It can put at risk when there is weak or missing encryption at POS.

